Over the last lecture we did cover a lot here.
One thing we haven't done yet though is use multiple components.
However angler is all about components and still we're stuck in this single component the app component.
Time to add a new one.
Now it is a good practice to create a new subfolder in the app folder for new components.
So I want to add my username component the same component I use yabber modules all named a folder a
user name and in there ultrathin you for which are name user name dot component dot ts.
Now in this fall we create our component and I do so by adding export KLOS.
So creating a class which is exported which means we can't access it from outside this fall.
We of course want to use it in other files then give it a name and the convention is to use the name
of the component with a capital leading letter username and then component so that the name of the class
also includes the description of what it is.
It's a component here.
This is all we need to do however to turn this into a component we need to add a decorator the ADD component
decorator like this does.
Now gives us an error because it's not a native typescript thing or a class it doesn't recognize it.
We have to import this from the angler package.
So we import a component using this index to call the braces from from the at angular slash core package.
That's just one of the package just the anger framework consists of.
With that we know what component is but we need to pass a javascript Optik to configure it.
Let me move as whitespace here.
How can we configure it.
Each component needs to at least have a template.
Dennis HVM all code it will display.
That's an absolute must.
We need to have all the code so we could define template your L to again point to an external file like
we do here in the app component.
However you can also inline the template if it's a very short one.
That's absolutely fine.
So in this case you can just write template and now assign a string which holds your age HTML code if
you want to have the luxury of creating a multi-line string easily.
You can use back year.
So these are Nazi like quotation marks.
These are back takes too easily write a multi-line string here.
Now here we can write the same code as an external file and we can write as many code as we want.
But again you should only use template if it's not that much code.
In my case here it's only a paragraph where I want to output some user name here.
User name of course should be set from outside.
So for now I will simply add my username property here and assign it to you let's say Chris to mix it
up.
And now to output it.
Now we will make this dynamic and settable from outside later.
But now I want to use that component to use that we need a second thing in the component decorator.
We need a selector to tail angular in the end how this component is added.
As I told you before this selector is a string and works basically like osseous as selector with some
limitations.
You can use ID here and some other things.
But you can use class or attribute selectors the typically use case is to use the tax collector here
and you should add a prefix like app so that it's definitely a unique selector and you don't accidentally
override existing HVM Eltang or something like that.
So here we could name this app username.
And now whenever we use that as a tag angler should add it.
Well let's try it out.
I go to my app component HMO file because remember we don't add our components to the index age.
Tim I'll fall that's only done for the app component.
All Avro components are added to Avro components templates.
In this case the app components template because it is the only Cobbold we have.
And it's our root component so we want to have it there.
So now I'll add it at the top by adding this and now making this attack like that like a HDMI element.
However if I save as with any sort of still running you now see me only see loading which means something
went wrong the epos start incorrectly.
If we open the developer tools now we see we have an error in the javascript console and it's actually
a pretty descriptive error or app user name.
It's not a known element.
And why is it not known.
Because well we did find a selector here right.
Where does Englert on it.
Because by default as I mentioned earlier angler doesn't scan all your files it doesn't see that you
have this component here.
We have to make a burglar aware of this component and we do so by adding it to the app module.
Here we have to edit the declarations aere we have to add our username component here and we have to
import it so that typescript not angular but typescript is able to find out where does username component
class actually sits.
So we have to import user name component from and now simply point to the username folder.
It's a relative payoff scene from the module on and then your username component file.
You can omit Didcot ts that will be automatically in the build workflow.
Now with that typescript knows where to find to type since we added the type to just declarations array.
ENGLER we'll have a look at this file.
And now if we save this as soon as our app reloads you'll see that now we see.
Chris you're at the top because now Engler is aware of are a component.
So the remaining question is how can we make this username settable from outside so that we don't have
to hard coded into our component here your.